Now we should look at the role and goals of our bones and make sure that the bones are going to rotate
in a consistent way.
So if we take a look at say this bone here the lower arm bone what we can do.
Let me zoom in here is we can look at the axes that it's going to rotate on by coming over here to the
armature panel.
And let's click on axes and now we get this white access here.
When we're in edit mode and what I want to do is rotate around the x axis with the main bend say the
main bend of this bone is going to be this way with the main bend toward the Z-axis.
So this one actually looks pretty good because we've got the x axis going to this side and the Z axis
facing forward.
So if I went to pose mode here and change my rotation mode to local and went to rotate you can see that
it would rotate around the x axis in the positive direction when it's moving when it's bending you can
see the x is here positive.
Now if I bent it back the other way like that we'd go into the negative here.
So I want to be able to rotate in the x axis with the main bend moving toward the z axis or toward the
positive x.
So let's take a look at this one up here.
I think this is a good angle here that we're rotating in the X going back and forth and that looks good.
However I'd like the positive x to be this way because if we bend it forward you can see it's going
into the negative numbers and I don't want that.
So what I need to do is rotate this axis around 180 degrees.
So I'll come back here to edit mode.
And with that bone selected I'll use the roll field over here in the properties panel and I'll just
click and then drag and I'll roll that around and I can take it around 180 degrees.
So now we go back to pose mode now you can see that we're still rotating in the X-axis But when we move
the arm forward we go in the positive x All right.
Let's take a look at the legs when they zoom in down here.
Now I would say the positive or the main axis of rotation maybe back.
And this decision is kind of arbitrary but I'm going to say that this would be should be positive going
this way and negative going this way.
You may certainly disagree and that's fine for this once again.
Also I'd say this should be positive and this should be negative this.
I think if this is positive like this that doesn't hurt anything.
And if this rotates around the X and positive goes up that's fine too.
So I think the legs are fine the fingers are going to be a different challenge here.
Let's take a look at say the index finger.
Notice that the X is going this way we don't really want it to bend side to side.
We wanted to bend forward and back.
So I will tab into edit mode and take a look at this.
Currently the X is facing up what we should probably do is have the X face side to side and the Z face
down.
So click this on the roll in drag and let's move this.
Let's try and line it up with the angle of the finger here.
Like that
and how was this one doing this one
needs to go the other way so it needs to have the Z facing down so I'll click and rotate that.
So the z is facing down
and this one
will try and line that up so the Z's facing down as well.
So.
All right so now if we go back to pose mode we can select a finger and you see that it rolls in the
X and when we bend it down like that it's positive and up like that is negative and that's good.
That's what we want.
So I need to go through and do the same thing with all these other fingers before we try and mirror
this arm and leg over to the other side.
Let's try and line this one up
so the Z needs to go down.
Like that roll this one.
So the z is down.
And finally this one here.
Roll that one as well.
All right.
So we have our fingers all rotated properly.
I'll go back to object mode here.
And let me make sure we have everything in place before we begin mirroring.
I'll turn off the axes.
We don't need those right now.
How about names.
I me make sure ah.
I need to go through and name all of these finger bones.
So let me do that.
All right I've gone ahead and named these.
Now what I need to do is duplicate and mirror them over to the other side.
When to close the properties panel here and over here in the armature panel I'm going to turn on names.
Now we can see all the names in the viewport of our bones to mirror these over.
I need to select a joint chain duplicated and then mirror it over around the center point.
So if I select the leg bones here in and then if I change my pivot point from median to 3D cursor and
move that 3D cursor into the center of the grid.
Now the pivot point of those selected items is in the center of the grid and we're going to mirror around
that point.
So I'll press shift d to duplicate and I'll immediately press the enter key.
Now notice that the names of the bones are just leg low dot l at 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 1.
We need to switch the names from DOT L to dot R. and Blendr has a nice little tool to do that with everything
still selected.
I'm going to press the W key and bring up the specials menu and here in the menu is Phlip names.
So if I select that it will automatically flip the name is from DOT l r.
That's pretty handy.
So now we can mirror these over using control him.
And I'm going to press the access in which we're going to mirror which will be the x axis and then I
have to press the enter or return key and there we go.
Now we've got our chain mirrored and the names flipped.
All right.
Let's do that again.
I'm going hit the Z key to go into wireframe and I'm going to press control and click and drag a selection
around all of these.
And now I'm going to hit the Z key to come back into solid mode here.
And it looks like I've got them all selected and since my pivot point is it 3D cursor and the 3D cursor
is at the center of the grid.
It will pivot or mirror around the center of the grid.
So now what I need to do is press shift D and press Enter press w click flip names.
Now press control em press the x key and hit enter.
So there you go.
We've got our joints mirrored over we've got all the names labeled correctly.
We're looking pretty good.
It looks like I need to name this bone up here for the spotlight.
But other than that I think we're ready to begin creating the control rig that will actually use to
animate the armature.